During a meeting with Mr. Trump at the White House on Friday, Mr. Ryan told the president that he was sorry the votes were not there. Mr. Trump bluntly told Mr. Ryan that many people had said he should have gone against the speaker’s advice and pursued a tax code overhaul first, a refrain the president has returned to frequently.

But Mr. Gingrich rejected the idea that Mr. Trump’s presidency would be hobbled by the health care debacle or any of the other setbacks. He predicted that the president would win confirmation of Judge Gorsuch, and noted that even as the health care bill failed, Mr. Trump on Friday reversed Mr. Obama’s rejection of the Keystone XL oil pipeline, a project that is popular among Mr. Trump’s supporters.

“He was the president this morning. He will be the president tomorrow. He has all the advantages that that implies,” Mr. Gingrich said. “He’s having a better presidency than anybody in the Washington media thinks.”

And Mr. Trump is not alone in making early missteps.

President Bill Clinton got embroiled in an early controversy over service by gays in the military. And the effort by his wife, Hillary Clinton, to overhaul health care failed just as spectacularly as Mr. Trump’s did. Mr. Obama lost his bid for “cap and trade” legislation limiting carbon emissions, though that defeat came during his second year in office.

Still, the challenge for Mr. Trump is clear: how to move past the daily turmoil and infighting inside the West Wing and prove that he can use his background as a businessman to advance the policies that he promised as a candidate.

To win an overhaul of the nation’s tax code and a $1 trillion investment in public infrastructure, Mr. Trump will need to find a way to build winning coalitions in the House and the Senate by corralling the often-warring factions in the Republican Party. That may be even more difficult on a tax overhaul than it was on health care, given the moneyed interests watching every proposed change. On some bipartisan goals, the president will have to seize the chance to pick up some Democratic votes as well.

To succeed in his use of executive power, the president will need to be more deft in drafting orders that will not be challenged in court. Mr. Obama faced similar problems as he increasingly used his executive authority to get around a recalcitrant Republican Congress.

To avoid being trapped in endless investigations, Mr. Trump will have to tone down his war of words with intelligence and law enforcement agencies. Investigations can drain the political life from a presidency, as Ronald Reagan found during the Iran-contra scandal and Mr. Clinton learned during the Monica Lewinsky investigations.
And if Mr. Trump wants to repair his personal credibility, which as been damaged in part by the many falsehoods he has articulated, he might have to curtail his use of Twitter.

In an interview with The New York Times as Republicans conceded failure on the health care bill, Mr. Trump insisted that the legislative process was not unlike what he faced in his career in real estate. But Friday evening, the president told his bleary-eyed aides that his old business was easy compared with what he had just encountered in Washington.

As Mr. Trump retired to the White House residence, he sounded tired in every way, including in spirit, his advisers said. There was a weariness about him that had not been present a day earlier.

In the end, the ragged start to Mr. Trump’s presidency may be the result of the way he views his relationship to Washington — as an outsider with little respect for the niceties expected by career politicians, the news media, diplomats, lobbyists and interest groups.

In his inaugural speech, the president condemned the establishment, calling it “a small group” that has “reaped the rewards of government while the people have borne the cost.”

And in an address at the Tennessee home of Andrew Jackson, the nation’s seventh president, Mr. Trump embraced the idea that there were parallels to his own presidency in Jackson’s.

“It was during the Revolution that Jackson first confronted and defied an arrogant elite. Does that sound familiar to you?” Mr. Trump asked the crowd, smiling broadly.

“Oh,” he said, “I know the feeling, Andrew.”